# Social Media's Influence On Black Lives Matter

# Infographic

Social media has had a tremendous influence on the Black Lives Matter movement for months following the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the death by shooting of black teen Trayvon Martin in Florida in 2013. This infographic will demonstrate how social media, especially Twitter, has provided the fundamental infrastructure to this activist movement. The use of an online community known as Black Twitter has long been using these platforms to collectively organize, offer support and increase visibility online for Black people and issues that matter to them. The activism of black Twitter is continuous, like a steady drumbeat, creating a feedback loop of online actions and offline demonstrations. Social media has allowed for information to be gathered on a monumental scope where it only takes two hours after the Police Department tweeted a photo of a person of interest for users to be posting photos and videos that showed him without the gun when the actual shooting was underway. Previously, it would have taken days of separate individuals writing letters to newspapers and police to sort out such a dangerous official misidentification, and there was a possibility of the wrong not being corrected. However, these online sources of information, such as Twitter, set the record straight out in the open while TV crews were still covering the incident. The coverage and influence social media has is so vast that within an instance of an outraged citizen simply tweeting, thousands or millions of comments are voiced, if not heard. Social media has enabled the translation of social awareness into real change. This  infographic will inform the audience of how a simple use of a hashtag has the power to spread awareness of modern racial injustices and gain traction for the movement across vast social media platforms. Additionally, through statistics gathered in the form of surveys, this infographic will illustrate how Black social media users are often more likely than their counterparts from some other racial and ethnic backgrounds to engage in different types of political activities on social media and to believe these activities are more effective. This infographic will demonstrate the variations of social media use for political activities by age among Black Americans. It will illustrate the major influence social media platforms have on the election and on change. The target audience for this infographic would be all people. I believe this is a national outcry that affects all demographics of people. Regardless of marital status, age, gender, race, religion, political practice, profession, economic status, geographic locations, etc., the impact of this movement has an affect on all people living in this nation and to everyone using these social media platforms.
